README.md, before:

## Chat with a calendar assistant

Ever been handed a tiny reminder card after booking an appointment—at the dentist, a massage therapist, or even a pedicure—only to shove it in your pocket, promising yourself you'll add it to your digital calendar later? (And then... forget? 😅)

This chatbot solves this problem in seconds.

📸 How it works:

1️⃣ Launch the app on your phone (or computer), tap Choose File, and TAKE PHOTO of the reminder card.

2️⃣ Give the AI chatbot some quick instructions.

3️⃣ It extracts the appointment details, formats them properly, and shows a preview.

4️⃣ You can refine the results with chat, claryfying dates and times, adding or correcting a location, etc. Chat for as long as you want until the calendar items are exactly how you want them!

5️⃣ When satisfied, download a single calendar file. On phones, most phones will offer to add the appointments directly to your calendar with one tap! On computers, you will download the file then double click to open and process into your calendar.

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/calendar-helper-ai.git
   ```
2. **Set up environment variables:**
   Create a `.env` file with the following variables:
   ```bash
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key
   FLASK_SECRET_KEY=your_random_secret_key  # For Flask development server only
   DEBUG_LOGGING=false
   DEBUG_LOG_IMAGE=false
   OPENAI_HTTP_CLIENT_LEVEL=ERROR
   OPENAI_API_LEVEL=ERROR
   ```

   Note: The FLASK_SECRET_KEY is only used for securing Flask's development server. This application does not use server-side sessions or store any session data. You can generate a secure key using:
   ```bash
   python -c 'import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(16))'
   ```

   Also, in development environments, you can enable logs to see much more information both in the server log as well as the browser logs.

4. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

The application will be available at port 5000.

## Project Structure

```
├── app.py                 # Flask application setup
├── routes.py             # API endpoints
├── utils/
│   ├── ai_processor.py   # OpenAI integration
│   ├── calendar.py       # iCalendar generation
│   └── location_service.py # Location services
├── static/               # Frontend assets
└── templates/            # HTML templates
```

## API Endpoints

- `GET /`: Main application interface
- `GET /api/config`: Get application configuration (version, max image size, allowed image types, debug settings)
- `POST /process`: Process image/text and generate events
- `POST /correct`: Apply corrections to existing events
- `POST /download-ics`: Generate and download iCalendar file

The `/api/config` endpoint is called automatically when the application loads to configure client-side validation and debugging. It returns:
- Maximum allowed image size
- List of allowed image types (jpg, png, etc.)
- Application version
- Debug logging settings

## Frontend Implementation

The frontend is built using vanilla JavaScript and Bootstrap for styling, providing a responsive and intuitive user interface. The main workflow consists of:

1. **Initial Load**:
   - Fetches configuration from `/api/config`
   - Sets up event listeners for file upload and chat
   - Initializes UI components

2. **User Interaction Flow**:
   - Upload Section: Handles image uploads and initial text input
   - Processing Display: Shows loading states during API calls
   - Results Display: Renders extracted events in cards
   - Chat Interface: Enables real-time corrections through conversation
   - Calendar Download: Generates and downloads .ics files

3. **Key Features**:
   - Real-time image preview
   - Interactive chat for corrections
   - Dynamic event card updates
   - Mobile-responsive design
   - Client-side validation for uploads

The UI maintains state in memory during the session and automatically clears after one hour of inactivity or when manually cleared by the user.

## Project Structure

```
├── app.py                 # Flask application setup
├── routes.py             # API endpoints
├── utils/
│   ├── ai_processor.py   # OpenAI integration
│   ├── calendar.py       # iCalendar generation
│   └── location_service.py # Location services
├── static/               # Frontend assets
└── templates/            # HTML templates

## Contributing

1. Fork this project
2. Create your feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request with a clear description of your changes

### Contribution Guidelines

- Follow the existing code style
- Add comments for complex logic
- Update documentation as needed
- Include tests for new features

## Privacy & Security

- Images are processed temporarily in memory only (with DEBUG_LOGGING=false and DEBUG_LOG_IMAGE=false)
- Text is processed temporarily in memory only (with DEBUG_LOGGING=false)
- No data is permanently stored (with DEBUG_LOGGING=false)
- No server-side session data is used or stored ever, even with logging enabled.
- Debug logs can be enabled for development (see the environment variables)
- All processing complies with GDPR, CCPA, and LGPD requirements
- See `static/terms.html` for complete terms of service

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

More readme edits to add more info about the backend, frontend. Also to refer to REPLIT and to include a LIVE VERSION link.

README.md, after:

## Chat with a calendar assistant

Ever been handed a tiny reminder card after booking an appointment—at the dentist, a massage therapist, or even a pedicure—only to shove it in your pocket, promising yourself you'll add it to your digital calendar later? (And then... forget? 😅)

This chatbot solves this problem in seconds.

📸 How it works:

1️⃣ Launch the app on your phone (or computer), tap Choose File, and TAKE PHOTO of the reminder card.

2️⃣ Give the AI chatbot some quick instructions.

3️⃣ It extracts the appointment details, formats them properly, and shows a preview.

4️⃣ You can refine the results with chat, claryfying dates and times, adding or correcting a location, etc. Chat for as long as you want until the calendar items are exactly how you want them!

5️⃣ When satisfied, download a single calendar file. On phones, most phones will offer to add the appointments directly to your calendar with one tap! On computers, you will download the file then double click to open and process into your calendar.

## Fun Fact

This app was generated and is actively maintained using REPLIT.COM. [Get your own REPLIT to begin generating and hosting apps with AI.](https://replit.com/refer/EricSoto1)

Check out a LIVE VERSION at [CalendarHelperAI.com](https://calendarhelperai.com).

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ericwastaken/calendar-helper-ai.git
   ```
2. **Set up environment variables:**
   Create a `.env` file with the following variables:
   ```bash
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key
   FLASK_SECRET_KEY=your_random_secret_key
   DEBUG_LOGGING=false
   DEBUG_LOG_IMAGE=false
   OPENAI_HTTP_CLIENT_LEVEL=ERROR
   OPENAI_API_LEVEL=ERROR
   ```

   Note: The FLASK_SECRET_KEY is only used for securing Flask's development server. This application does not use server-side sessions or store any session data. You can generate a secure key using:
   ```bash
   python -c 'import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(16))'
   ```

   Also, in development environments, you can enable logs to see much more information both in the server log as well as the browser logs.

4. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

The application will be available at port 5000.

## Project Structure

```
├── app.py                # Flask application setup
├── routes.py             # API endpoints
├── utils/
│   ├── ai_processor.py   # OpenAI integration
│   ├── calendar.py       # iCalendar generation
│   └── location_service.py # Location services
├── static/               # Frontend assets
└── templates/            # HTML templates
```

## API Endpoints

- `GET /`: Main application interface
- `GET /api/config`: Get application configuration (version, max image size, allowed image types, debug settings)
- `POST /process`: Process image/text and generate events
- `POST /correct`: Apply corrections to existing events
- `POST /download-ics`: Generate and download iCalendar file

The `/api/config` endpoint is called automatically when the application loads to configure client-side validation and debugging. It returns:
- Maximum allowed image size
- List of allowed image types (jpg, png, etc.)
- Application version
- Debug logging settings

The `utils/config.py` file is central to the operation of the application as it houses constants that are accessed by the `/api/config` endpoint. These constants include settings that affect how the application runs, such as version numbers, maximum image sizes, accepted image formats, among other configuration details. By consolidating these constants in a single file, the application can maintain clarity and make updates to configuration settings straightforward.

### Backend Implementation

The backend implementation is primarily responsible for handling requests from the frontend and leveraging OpenAI's capabilities to process images, text, and facilitate interactive chat sessions for event correction. When the frontend submits data, typically an image and initial text, the backend receives these through defined API endpoints.

Upon receiving an image, the backend employs OpenAI to extract appointment details by interpreting the visual and textual data. These extracted details are then previewed for the user in the chat interface on the frontend, enabling them to see the AI's interpretation.

One of the core features of the backend is to initiate and manage chat sessions that allow users to make corrections or add details through conversation. This part of the system also utilizes OpenAI, enabling dynamic interaction where users can refine the extracted events based on feedback and further input. Additionally, locations are processed using OpenAI to ensure accurate venue details are attached to events.

All OpenAI prompts used across these functionalities are maintained separately, as explained in the Prompts section. This separation ensures that the AI interactions are structured, contextual, and adaptable to the application's flow. By keeping prompts separate, the application can flexibly adapt queries and responses to align with user inputs and contextual nuances.

### Prompts

Prompts are maintained within the `utils/prompts.py` file. This file contains declarations for all the prompts in a format that is suitable for processing by the AI model. These prompts are static but contain dynamic elements that are injected based on user input and other contextual data gathered during the app's execution (for example, the user's location based on their IP address, the current date, etc.)

Once a prompt is constructed, it is sent through API calls to the OpenAI service where it undergoes processing. The processed output is then returned to the application, where it is used to extract information or make corrections as part of the application's flow. This dynamic prompt handling enables the AI feature to respond intelligently to user interactions, providing relevant and accurate results.

## Frontend Implementation

The frontend is built using vanilla JavaScript and Bootstrap for styling, providing a responsive and intuitive user interface. The main workflow consists of:

1. **Initial Load**:
   - Fetches configuration from `/api/config`
   - Sets up event listeners for file upload and chat
   - Initializes UI components

2. **User Interaction Flow**:
   - Upload Section: Handles image uploads and initial text input
   - Processing Display: Shows loading states during API calls
   - Results Display: Renders extracted events in cards
   - Chat Interface: Enables real-time corrections through conversation
   - Calendar Download: Generates and downloads .ics files

3. **Key Features**:
   - Real-time image preview
   - Interactive chat for corrections
   - Dynamic event card updates
   - Mobile-responsive design
   - Client-side validation for uploads

The UI maintains state in memory during the session and automatically clears after one hour of inactivity or when manually cleared by the user.

## Contributing

1. Fork this project
2. Create your feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request with a clear description of your changes

### Contribution Guidelines

- Follow the existing code style
- Add comments for complex logic
- Update documentation as needed
- Include tests for new features

## Privacy & Security

- Images are processed temporarily in memory only (with DEBUG_LOGGING=false and DEBUG_LOG_IMAGE=false)
- Text is processed temporarily in memory only (with DEBUG_LOGGING=false)
- No data is permanently stored (with DEBUG_LOGGING=false)
- No server-side session data is used or stored ever, even with logging enabled.
- Debug logs can be enabled for development (see the environment variables)
- All processing complies with GDPR, CCPA, and LGPD requirements
- See `static/terms.html` for complete terms of service

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
